.TH lrelease 1 "18 October 2001" "Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies)" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2011 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies).
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" Contact: Nokia Corporation (qt-info@nokia.com)
.\"
.\" This file is part of the QtGui module of the Qt Toolkit.
.\"
.\" $QT_BEGIN_LICENSE:LGPL$
.\" No Commercial Usage
.\" This file contains pre-release code and may not be distributed.
.\" You may use this file in accordance with the terms and conditions
.\" contained in the Technology Preview License Agreement accompanying
.\" this package.
.\"
.\" GNU Lesser General Public License Usage
.\" Alternatively, this file may be used under the terms of the GNU Lesser
.\" General Public License version 2.1 as published by the Free Software
.\" Foundation and appearing in the file LICENSE.LGPL included in the
.\" packaging of this file.  Please review the following information to
.\" ensure the GNU Lesser General Public License version 2.1 requirements
.\" will be met: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/lgpl-2.1.html.
.\"
.\" In addition, as a special exception, Nokia gives you certain additional
.\" rights.  These rights are described in the Nokia Qt LGPL Exception
.\" version 1.1, included in the file LGPL_EXCEPTION.txt in this package.
.\"
.\" If you have questions regarding the use of this file, please contact
.\" Nokia at qt-info@nokia.com.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" $QT_END_LICENSE$
.\"
.SH NAME
lrelease \- generate Qt message files from Qt Linguist translation files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lrelease
.RI "[ " options " ] " project-file
.br
.B lrelease
.RI "[ " options " ] " ts-files " [ -qm " qm-file " ]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This page documents the
.B Qt Linguist Release
tool for the Qt GUI toolkit.
.B Lrelease
reads a qmake/tmake project file (.pro file) and converts the
translation files (.ts files) specified in it into Qt message files
(.qm files) used by the application to translate.
.PP
The .qm file format is a compact binary format that provides
extremely fast lookups for translations and that is used by Qt.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I "-help"
Display the usage and exit.
.TP
.I "-nocompress"
Do not compress the .qm files.
.TP
.I "-verbose"
Explain what is being done.
.TP
.I "-version"
Display the version of
.B lrelease
and exit.
.SH USAGE
Here is an example .pro file that can be given to
.B lrelease:
.PP
.in +4
.nf
HEADERS         = funnydialog.h \\
                  wackywidget.h
SOURCES         = funnydialog.cpp \\
                  main.cpp \\
                  wackywidget.cpp
FORMS           = fancybox.ui
TRANSLATIONS    = gnomovision_dk.ts \\
                  gnomovision_fi.ts \\
                  gnomovision_no.ts \\
                  gnomovision_se.ts
.fi
.in -4
.PP
When running
.B lrelease
on this project file, the Qt message files gnomovision_dk.qm,
gnomovision_fi.qm, gnomovision_no.qm and gnomovision_se.qm will be
generated from gnomovision_dk.ts, gnomovision_fi.ts,
gnomovision_no.ts and gnomovision_se.ts, respectively.
.PP
.B Lrelease
can also be invoked with a list of .ts files to convert:
.PP
.in +4
.nf
lrelease gnomovision_*.ts
.fi
.in -4
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lupdate (1)
and
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/i18n.html
