.TH lupdate 1 "18 October 2001" "Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies)" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2011 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies).
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" Contact: Nokia Corporation (qt-info@nokia.com)
.\"
.\" This file is part of the QtGui module of the Qt Toolkit.
.\"
.\" $QT_BEGIN_LICENSE:LGPL$
.\" No Commercial Usage
.\" This file contains pre-release code and may not be distributed.
.\" You may use this file in accordance with the terms and conditions
.\" contained in the Technology Preview License Agreement accompanying
.\" this package.
.\"
.\" GNU Lesser General Public License Usage
.\" Alternatively, this file may be used under the terms of the GNU Lesser
.\" General Public License version 2.1 as published by the Free Software
.\" Foundation and appearing in the file LICENSE.LGPL included in the
.\" packaging of this file.  Please review the following information to
.\" ensure the GNU Lesser General Public License version 2.1 requirements
.\" will be met: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/lgpl-2.1.html.
.\"
.\" In addition, as a special exception, Nokia gives you certain additional
.\" rights.  These rights are described in the Nokia Qt LGPL Exception
.\" version 1.1, included in the file LGPL_EXCEPTION.txt in this package.
.\"
.\" If you have questions regarding the use of this file, please contact
.\" Nokia at qt-info@nokia.com.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" $QT_END_LICENSE$
.\"
.SH NAME
lupdate \- update Qt Linguist translation files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lupdate
.RI "[ " options " ] " project-file
.br
.B lupdate
.RI "[ " options " ] " source-files " -ts " ts-files
.SH DESCRIPTION
This page documents the
.B Qt Linguist Update
tool for the Qt GUI toolkit.
.B Lupdate
reads a qmake/tmake project file (.pro file), finds the translatable
strings in the specified source, header and interface files, and
updates the translation files (.ts files) specified in it. The
translation files are given to the translator who uses
.B Qt Linguist
to read the files and insert the translations.
.PP
The .ts file format is a simple human-readable XML format that can be
used with version control systems if required.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I "-help"
Display the usage and exit.
.TP
.I "-noobsolete"
Drop all obsolete strings.
.TP
.I "-verbose"
Explain what is being done.
.TP
.I "-version"
Display the version of
.B lupdate
and exit.
.SH USAGE
Here is an example .pro file that can be given to
.B lupdate:
.PP
.in +4
.nf
HEADERS         = funnydialog.h \\
                  wackywidget.h
SOURCES         = funnydialog.cpp \\
                  main.cpp \\
                  wackywidget.cpp
FORMS           = fancybox.ui
TRANSLATIONS    = gnomovision_dk.ts \\
                  gnomovision_fi.ts \\
                  gnomovision_no.ts \\
                  gnomovision_se.ts
.fi
.in -4
.PP
When running
.B lupdate
on this project file, the translatable strings in all the files
listed in the HEADERS, SOURCES and FORMS entries will be put in
the translation files listed in the TRANSLATIONS entry. Previous
translations will be reused as far as possible, and translated
strings that have vanished from the source files are marked obsolete.
.PP
.B Lupdate
can also be invoked with a list of C++ source files, .ui files
and .ts files:
.PP
.in +4
.nf
lupdate *.cpp *.h *.ui -ts gnomovision_dk.ts
.fi
.in -4
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lrelease (1)
and
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/i18n.html
