.TH QMAKE 1 "2005-07-23"
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2011 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies).
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" Contact: Nokia Corporation (qt-info@nokia.com)
.\"
.\" This file is part of the QtGui module of the Qt Toolkit.
.\"
.\" $QT_BEGIN_LICENSE:LGPL$
.\" GNU Lesser General Public License Usage
.\" This file may be used under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
.\" License version 2.1 as published by the Free Software Foundation and
.\" appearing in the file LICENSE.LGPL included in the packaging of this
.\" file. Please review the following information to ensure the GNU Lesser
.\" General Public License version 2.1 requirements will be met:
.\" http://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/lgpl-2.1.html.
.\"
.\" In addition, as a special exception, Nokia gives you certain additional
.\" rights. These rights are described in the Nokia Qt LGPL Exception
.\" version 1.1, included in the file LGPL_EXCEPTION.txt in this package.
.\"
.\" GNU General Public License Usage
.\" Alternatively, this file may be used under the terms of the GNU General
.\" Public License version 3.0 as published by the Free Software Foundation
.\" and appearing in the file LICENSE.GPL included in the packaging of this
.\" file. Please review the following information to ensure the GNU General
.\" Public License version 3.0 requirements will be met:
.\" http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html.
.\"
.\" Other Usage
.\" Alternatively, this file may be used in accordance with the terms and
.\" conditions contained in a signed written agreement between you and Nokia.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" $QT_END_LICENSE$
.\"
.SH NAME
qmake \- cross-platform makefile generator for Qt

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qmake
.I "[mode] [options] [files]"
.br
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B qmake
has two modes, one mode for generating project files based on some
heuristics, and the other for generating makefiles. Normally you
shouldn't need to specify a mode, as makefile generation is the default
mode for qmake, but you may use this to test qmake on an existing
project.

.SH MODE
.TP
.B "\-project"
Put qmake into project file generation mode In this mode qmake
interprets files as files to be built, defaults to *.c; *.ui; *.y; *.l;
*.ts; *.qrc; *.h; *.hpp; *.hh; *.hxx; *.H; *.cpp; *.cc; *.cxx; *.C
.TP
.B "\-makefile"
Put qmake into makefile generation mode (default) In this mode qmake
interprets files as project files to be processed, if skipped qmake will
try to find a project file in your current working directory

.SH WARNINGS OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-Wnone"
Turn off all warnings
.TP
.BI "\-Wall"
Turn on all warnings
.TP
.BI "\-Wparser"
Turn on parser warnings
.TP
.BI "\-Wlogic"
Turn on logic warnings

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-o" file
Write output to file
.TP
.BI "\-unix"
Run in unix mode
.TP
.BI "\-win32"
Run in win32 mode
.TP
.BI "\-macx"
Run in Mac OS X mode
.TP
.BI "\-d"
Increase debug level
.TP
.BI "\-t" templ
Overrides TEMPLATE as templ
.TP
.BI "\-tp" prefix
Overrides TEMPLATE so that prefix is prefixed
.TP
into the value
.BI "\-help"
This help
.TP
.BI "\-v"
Version information
.TP
.BI "\-after"
All variable assignments after this will be parsed after [files]
.TP
.BI "\-norecursive"
Don't do a recursive search
.TP
.BI "\-recursive"
Do a recursive search
.TP
.BI "\-cache file"
Use file as cache [makefile mode only]
.TP
.BI "\-spec spec"
Use spec as QMAKESPEC [makefile mode only]
.TP
.BI "\-nocache"
Don't use a cache file [makefile mode only]
.TP
.BI "\-nodepend"
Don't generate dependencies [makefile mode only]
.TP
.BI "\-nomoc"
Don't generate moc targets [makefile mode only]
.TP
.BI "\-nopwd"
Don't look for files in pwd [project mode only]

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR /usr/share/qt4/doc/html/qmake-manual.html,
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Brian Nelson <pyro@debian.org> based on
the output of
.B "qmake -help".
